# Writing About This by Zarfeen Hossain (nfkp)
## 4-5-2025
I re watched 5 cm per second today. Today’s a unique time to do something like that, because I found myself in the same position as the protagonist during the ending. A question came to me subconsciously after watching the ending montage about how Makoto Shinkai could make such unfulfilling love stories that feel unimaginable compared to my lived experience.

I worked on the sky today. I like how it looks impressionist. I rewrote the lore yesterday to better fit the game, where the story happens during wartime in a city going through military mobilization. In addition to military training programs, research and educational institutions are built by Violet’s company to develop technology and science in order to get an advantage in the war. Violet makes the impossible to contradict claim that advancing science will help humans, and that war and suffering is an unfortunate, but effective way for people to stop being static. The world spins on it’s axis and people start suffering themselves for their lack of independent thought, but know what they must do to be morally correct in this matter: to keep working and make the war stop. I intended for this backdrop to have nothing to do with the actual drama other than to give a general direction for the character’s lives. It’s also useful as a way to create an avenue to include Violet in the story somehow. My idea was that the sense of physicality comes from something in the intimacy between the characters, and that’s why the screen presence of people in films feel so different from their background. Except that love at the extreme I saw just now in that movie felt just as part of the indifferent world as that backdrop.

I stumbled across a Yoshiyuki Tomino Shounen Weekly interview about his opinion on Shinkai’s films. People laughed online about his problem with it, which was that it had no sex. “A boy and a girl are constantly grasping at each other, but the boy can never reach the girl’s crotch.” The sexuality was that physicality, and it was the fulfillment that was missing in Shinkai’s works. My epiphany was something like "Love and Sex are indistinguishable". When someone tries to put one above the other, they just get hurt from confusion.

I’m in a phase of animating the main character, so his screen presence is something really important to me right now. Thinking about this helps me get a better understanding of how him and future characters fit in the story and interact with the backdrop.
